RepeatExplorer2 clustering is a computational pipeline for unsupervised identification of repeats from unassembled sequence reads. 
The pipeline uses low-pass whole genome sequence reads and performs graph-based clustering. 
Resulting clusters, representing all types of repeats, are then examined to identify and classify into repeats groups.

The analysis requires either single or paired-end reads generated by whole genome shotgun sequencing provided as a single fasta-formatted file.
Generally, paired-end reads provide significantly better results than single reads. 
Reads should be of uniform length (optimal size range is 100-200 nt) 
and the number of analyzed reads should represent less than 1x genome equivalent (genome coverage of 0.01 - 0.50 x is recommended). 
Reads should be quality-filtered (recommended filtering : quality score >=10 over 95% of bases and no Ns allowed)
and only complete read pairs should be submitted for analysis. 
When paired reads are used, input data must be interlaced format as fasta file

To do:
find a way to compare RN and RepeatExplorer given 1 only allows raw reads and another only assembled reads
One way: 
1) run assembly on assembled reads
2) run TR and RM on assembled, and RE on unassembled (note - QC needed, and paired end reads are optimal)


First run on raw data downloaded from SRA (no QC, etc.)
```bash
prefetch SRX29907886
fastq-dump --outdir ./ --gzip --skip-technical --readids --read-filter pass --dumpbase --split-3 SRR34774499.sra
seqtk seq -a SRR34774499_pass.fastq.gz > SRR34774499.fasta
singularity exec --bind ${PWD}:/data/ repex_tarean.sif seqclust -v /data/re_output /data/SRR34774499.fasta
```

Time:
2025-08-01 13:37:11,122 - __main__ - INFO -
2025-08-01 18:55:14,398 - __main__ - INFO -
10 mb file - 5.5 hours

RepearExplorer instruction states:
"The analysis requires either single or paired-end reads generated by whole genome shotgun sequencing provided as a single fasta-formatted file. Generally, paired-end reads provide significantly better results than single reads. Reads should be of uniform length (optimal size range is 100-200 nt) and the number of analyzed reads should represent less than 1x genome equivalent (genome coverage of 0.01 - 0.50 x is recommended). Reads should be quality-filtered (recommended filtering : quality score >=10 over 95% of bases and no Ns allowed) and only complete read pairs should be submitted for analysis. When paired reads are used, input data must be interlaced format as fasta file"

In this case I am using single reads, 20000 reads ~250 nt long each which is suboptimal

Now need to:
1) understand output
2) understand metrics to calculate coverage and accuracy
3) understand software to calculate efficiency (if it's necesary)
4) choose software to do assembly to compare to RN software
5) calculate coverage and accuracy

Notes:
- has a lot of dependencies, so best run with Singularity container. Makes installation process harder

-----
Citation:
Petr Novák, Pavel Neumann, Jiří Pech, Jaroslav Steinhaisl, Jiří Macas, RepeatExplorer: a Galaxy-based web server for genome-wide characterization of eukaryotic repetitive elements from next-generation sequence reads, Bioinformatics, Volume 29, Issue 6, March 2013, Pages 792–793, https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btt054
-----

Optimal workflow:
